# Time_series_analysis
A univariate and multivariate time series analysis for infering the relationship between bitcoins and stock market
The world’s number 1 cryptocurrency, bitcoin, a type of electronic money was introduced in the financial market by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2009 , which use cryptographic methods to link peer-to-peer users without any intermediaries. Bitcoin are not controlled by the Central bank or authority, and it relies on the blockchain, an open source software algorithm that verifies decentralized transactions. This associates with a significant volatility they experience in the market. Bitcoin is a groundbreaking digital technology with the potential to radically change the way we conduct banking and commerce and to bring billions of people from the emerging markets into a modern, integrated, digitized and globalized economy.
The world of Cryptocurrency is an exciting new world where much is still unknown. The cryptocurrency market has risen very suddenly and become seemingly ever-present. Since the market is at its early stages, it has remained highly unregulated and thus highly volatile.
This has caused for a need to understand how the behavior of bitcoin prices influence the decision of the stock market investors. In other words, how does the price of the cryptocurrency influence the stock market prices in India. We have used the stock market index, Nifty 50 weekly data over the period 2015-2019. Different time series techniques are applied to predict how the dynamic price of bitcoin has a relationship with the fluctuations in the stock exchange indexes. 
I use the Granger causality, Vector Auto Regression model and Impulse Response Functions to estimate the reaction of the stock market returns  to cryptocurrency and vice versa .
